In Node Authentication there are mainly two strategies we follow:
1. passport-local strategy
2. passport-jwt strategy

User Authentication choices:
1. session
2. JSON Web Tokens
3. OAuth
    - In-House
    - SaaS

What is Authentication?
To know who the user is 

what is Authorization?
To know and allow what they can access or authorize to do in the secured system

What is passport JS?
It is a middleware which determines whether the requestor has permission to view that resource, if the user does not have permission, a 401 Unauthorized Error is thrown

What is cookies?
Ans: Cookies are medium to send session id
1. Cookies can be modified by the client and they cant be trusted by the server
2. Cookies and session can be good for some use cases but for complex we could go for
- OAuth
- OpenID
- JWT

What are tokens?
Tokens can be seen as a successor or refined version of cookies-session Authentication which can be useful to tackle intricate authentication problem.
Token is basically comprised of a temporary password and other useful information from the user to make the authentication more restricted & secure
some possible options for token based authentication are:
- OAuth
- OpenID
- JWT


What is Encryption?
Encrytion is used to provide confidentiality
 -Confidentiality : Only intended recipient can interpret the data

two types of Key Based encryption?

    - symmetric Encryption (Encrypt and Decrypt using the same keys)
    - Asymmetric Encryption (Encrypt and Decrypt using different keys)


What are public Key cryptography?
public Key cryptography, you create two keys -
    -private key - secret known only to you
    -public key  - public anyone can know

What is digital signature?
A digital signature is equivalent to a handwritten signature, It is an eletronic verification of the sender and it serves three purposes

1. Authentication - A digital signature gives the receiver reason to believe the message was created and sent by the claimed sender
2. Non-repudiation - with digital signature the sender cannot deny having sent the message later on
3. Integrity

Digital signature uses asymmetric crytography, which means public key algorithm is employed

What is hashing?

Hashing is a process where an algorithm is used to turn any piece of data into fixed length representation of data

Hashing starts with a hash function(a piece of code) and most popular hashing functions are MD5 and SHA2-256

Hashing is a 1-way process, and cannot be derived the data from hash

Same data always produces same HASH

Hashing collision?
 if the has of data A equals to the hash of data B , this is a symbol of weak collision

How the digital signature works?

sender ---> file/text  ----> hash algorithm ---> digest ---> asymmetric crytographic algorithm  ----> digital signature+(file/text) ---> receiveer decrypts digital signature using key sent 
by sender ---> gets the digest(from the sender) ---> Hash algorithm and produces a digest and matches with the digest receiver received from the sender--->
 
 What is Http protocol?
 A set of rules to communicate between sever and client , Http request are stateless,which means it forgets

What is Http Client?
Any device that is connnected to internet to request resource is called Http client


what is http header?

http header is the metadata of the request 

Request Context?
Helps to put whatever we want in the request